# Data of OB23b (FOGA 2023)
Generate experimental results of OB23b.

* fig1/main_dyn.m: generates and displays R(g) and sigma*(g)-dynamics of Fig. 1
* fig2/main_avg.m: generates sampled and analytic results for f(R) at N=1 and N=2
* fig3/main_avg.m: generates sampled and R-aggregated results for f(R) at N=3,10,100,1000 
* fig4/main_dyn_distr.m: first the dynamics is calculated for 500 trials. In the end, the distribution of y_i is evaluated at two residual distances (left and right sub-plot).
* fig5/main_phi.m: two configurations used to generate Fig. 5. CONFIG 1 (const Y) evaluates the progress rate for a fixed given y (at R=7), while CONFIG 2 (const R) samples random y-values at R=7. The two plots need to be merged manually.
* fig6/main_contour.m, fig6/main_dyn.m: progress landscape phi(sigma*, R) generated by main_contour.m, dynamics (two configurations for TAU) generated by main_dyn.m. In the end, plots can be merged manually.
* fig7/main_contour.m: generates progress landscape and intersection points.
* fig8_top/main_popsize.m: population sizing experiments under fixed Rastrigin A, ALPHA, by varying N and determining necessary MU(N) to achieve high success rate.
	* The relevant MU_RANGE was determined beforehand. It was chosen small enough to cover the most interesting region of P_S~0.99 using many trials (instead of choosing large MU_RANGE with less trials due to limited resources).
	* script writes **data_wsp.mat** (binary MATLAB file) to save data. Renamed to **data.mat** to avoid overwriting of final results.
	* **data.mat**  was manually exported to text file **data.txt** for universal access.
	* script **main_data.m** reads **data.mat** to generate results showing success rate and MU(N) scaling.
* fig8_bottom/main_popsize.m: same procedure as in Fig. 8 (top).
* fig9/main_popsize.m: same procedure as in Fig. 8, variation of A (fixed N, ALPHA).
* fig10/main_popsize.m: same procedure as in Fig. 8, variation of ALPHA (fixed N, A).
* fig11/main_contour_y.m: generates visualization (contour lines) of gain term.
* fig12/main_contour.m: generates progress landscape including sigma_esc. Dynamics are generated using **main_dyn.m** (configurations 1-3 for varying TAU).
* fig13/main_crit.m: main_crit.m calls **isolines_crit_point.m** to calculate the progress landscape and its critical sigma* (minimal sigma* with vanishing progress rate).
The determination of sigma* is done by sampling the progress landscape using 1001x1001 values for sigma* and R, respectively.
* fig14/main_dyn_sigma.m: loop over multiple sigma-values for the optimization under constant sigma.
* fig15/main_dyn_sigma_PS.m: repeated evaluations of experiment in Fig 14. Success probability P_S is determined under optimization with constant sigma.