# Data of: Investigating Adaptive Population Control Strategies with Cumulative Step-Size Adaptation

Files to run simulation are contained in each fig-folder, respectively, and start with "main_":
* fig1a: main_csa_ss.m generates steady-state dynamics of Fig. 1a (left), and the measured steady-state sigma^*_ss (used in Fig. 1a right)
* fig1b: main_progress_rates.m generates variation of mu (N=100), displaying progress rate and approximations (left), and sigma^*-values (right); 
** main_progress_rates.m is also used to generate progress rate data of Fig. 1a (right) by setting MU_LIST=[200];
* fig2: main_gamma.m runs experiments for CSA steady-state analysis of gamma; switch configurations as given in comments
* fig3: main_dyn_sqrtN.m runs Fig. 3 (left, variation of N) and Fig. 3 (right, variation of MU) by (un-)commenting; furthermore, the corresponding CSA (4a,4b,4c) must be selected by (un-)commenting. The results of the three CSA variants need to be merged.
* fig4: main_csa_muGoUp.m generates Fig. 4a and Fig. 4b. Each run generates the three sigma-rescaling variants for given N, SET_WAIT, and CSA variant.
(un-)comment to generate all 6 plots. 
* fig5: run main_fig5_var.m to generate dynamics of Fig. 5 for given MU. Vary MU to generate all performance measures and merge into single plot.
* fig6: main_fig6_var.m generates APOP dynamcis of S10,S100,S1000,N10,N100,N1000 (top to bottom) for both parameter sets P1 and P2. Respective dynamics can be extracted. 
* fig7: main_fig7_var.m generates pcCSA dynamcis of S10,S100,S1000,N10,N100,N1000 (top to bottom) for both parameter sets P1 and P2. Respective dynamics can be extracted. 
* fig8: main_fig7_var.m generates PSA dynamcis of S10,S100,S1000,N10,N100,N1000 (top to bottom) for CSA (4a, LIST_CSA=[11])  and CSA (4c, LIST_CSA=[2]) with parameter set P2. Respective dynamics can be extracted. 
* fig9: main_eval.m: loads simulated data and generates plots.
	* const_pcOFF_csaTYPE with TYPE={11: (4a), 12: (4b), 2: (4c)} contain tables and binaries with PCS off (constant mu_max).
	* adapt_csaTYPE_PCS contain tables and binaries with active PCS of the three PCS methods.
* fig9_generate: choose LIST_METHOD, LIST_CSA, LIST_CONFIG, pc_input.TRIALS and run main_eval.m to generate data on Rastrigin (Fig. 9a and 9b).
* fig10: main_eval.m: loads simulated data from folders and generates plots.
	* resig_csaTYPE_vP_PCS, with TYPE={11: (4a), 12: (4b), 2: (4c)}, P={2: P2; 3: linear sigma rescaling; 4: no sigma rescaling}
* fig10_generate: choose LIST_METHOD, LIST_CSA, LIST_CONFIG=[2,3,4] (2: sqrt-rescaling, 3:linear rescaling, 4_ no rescaling), pc_input.TRIALS and run main_eval.m to generate data on Rastrigin (Fig. 9a and 9b).
* TABLE II, III, IV: tables are saved as *.asv files inside the folder using the following nomenclature.
	* tab_csaTYPE_vP_PCS with TYPE={11: (4a), 12: (4b), 2: (4c)}, P={1,2}, PCS={APOP,PCCMSA,PSA}.
	* data and corresponding plots can be generated by simply running main_var.m

# Supplementary Material
* fig11: main_pure_cmaes.m runs purecmaes.m from Hansen (MU must be varied). main_csa_ss_abgleichHan.m runs standard CSA-ES for all three MU values.
* fig12: run main_var.m to generate dynamics for N=10 and N=100 at given pc_input.mu_max=pc_input.mu_min. PSA steady-state is calculated and plotted in fct_plot.m. Dynamics need to be extracted into separate plot.
* fig13: main_fig13_var.m generates dynamics for LIST_CONFIG = [1,2] (1: sqrt-mu rescaling: 2: no sigma rescaling) using P1 (see pc_input/*)
* fig14: main_hist.m generates f-histogram for given R and sigma0 on sphere.
* fig15: main_fig15_var.m generates hypothesis test data from Fig. 15a and dynamics of Fig. 15b. DEBUG_G = 4 was hard-coded in pc_pccmsa(..) to generate plot.
* fig16: main_fig16_var.m generates dynamics. Switch CSA with LIST_CSA {11: csa (4a), 2: csa (4c)} and LIST_CONFIG with {2: sigma rescaling; 4: no sigma rescaling} to create dynamics.
* fig17: main_fig17_var.m: (un-)comment sections APOP/pcCSA/PSA to generate respective exemplary dynamics on Rastrigin. get_id = [6,5] ensures ordering of simulations as in paper.
